---
title: Ecology
description: Ecological research projects
menu: main
weight: -210
---

### Ecological networks

I collaborate with folks in the Systems Ecology and Ecoinformatics
(SEE) Lab at UNCW to develop and apply network theory based tools for
studying complex ecosystems.  For more info, check out Dr. Borrett's
[SEELab website](http://people.uncw.edu/borretts/).

### Genes to ecosystems

I have collaborated with researchers at Northern Arizona University on
a range of projects studying how genetic variation can impact
ecosystems through a combination of experimental ecology, genetics and
multivariate statistics, community genetics. 

You can read more about this research in my blog or on the website for
the
[Merriem-Powell Center's website](https://nau.edu/Merriam-Powell/cottonwood-ecology/).

During my postdoctoral fellowship at Harvard Forest, I lead a project
to sequence the genomes of important seed disepersing ants from the
genus *Aphaenogaster*. The sequences are now available
[here](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA385595) and you
can read a pre-print of the manuscript [here](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2018/04/24/302679).

### Modeling ecosystem disturbance

I have also been involed in several projects using the food-webs of
the carnivorous plant *Sarracenia pupurea* as a model for
understanding the responses of ecosystems to perturbations. I lead a
project,
[now published!](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2018/04/24/087296),
that examined the range of conditions that lead to un-desired
ecosystem states. I also lead the development of a Shiny App for the
pitcher plant modelYou can read more about the system and on-going
research at the Harvard Forest's
[pitcher plant page](http://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/related-highlights/57).
